hello everybody its Jamal and I'm back
with a TOEFL webinar for you today and
we're going to be looking at the
independent writing task which is an
essay so I can see that a few of you are
already in attendance so I'll just wait
another couple of minutes while the rest
of the class joins us how many of you
have actually written a TOEFL essay
before
okay so emulsify this will be your first
time writing a TOEFL essay so what I'm
going to do is I'm actually going to
walk you through the steps so we're
going to take a look at the types of
questions essay questions that you're
going to get in the test and then I'm
going to walk you through the planning
so how do you plan your essay it's very
important that you plan what you write
before you start writing so that your
essay stays on track and I'm going to go
through with you the parts of the essay
and how to deconstruct the the parts of
the essay so that you can then construct
an essay we're going to go through that
process and we're going to end up at the
end of this class with a full essay and
you're also going to end up with a
structure and some ideas after the class
for you to go off and write your own
essay all right so let's take a look
okay can you guys confirm what can you
see on your screen because something can
you see the PowerPoint presentation and
their lesson outline you should be able
to see the lesson outline on your screen
you can all see that okay great okay so
the outline for today's lesson is a task
description I'm going to explain to you
what the TOEFL essay task is about we're
then going to go through an essay
structure and then we're going to write
an introduction I'm going to write one
for you and then you're going to write
one for me then I'm going to write my
body paragraphs and I'm going to give
you a chance to plan your own body
paragraphs and then after the class
you're going to write them yourself then
I'm going to finish this lesson by
writing a conclusion for you and then
you're going to write a conclusion for
me and then we're going to take a look
at the end result so the essay that I've
created for you them to go off and
create your own after this class so the
objective is for today is for you to
understand how to write a triple essay
and to have all the tools that you need
to write a total essay so how do we
describe this task well it is an essay
are between 300 to 350 words that gives
your opinion on a topic and specific
reasons and examples to support your
opinion so it's essentially an opinion
essay today's essay question is this
some people believe that university
students should be required to attend
classes others believe that going to
class
should be optional for students which
point of view do you agree with your
specific reasons and details to explain
your answer all right so let's break
down this essay question here we have
two points to view here's our first
point of view some people believe that
university students should be required
to attend classes one opinion the second
opinion is others believe that going to
classes should be optional so there's
two opinions and two key words there
that University students should be
required to attend classes that
attendance should be required or
attendance should be optional which
point of view do you agree with so you
need to choose one of those to agree
with that attendance should be required
or a tenant should be optional and you
need to explain your opinion by using
reasons and details so what's the
structure of an essay a structure
basically follows this sorry an essay
follows the structure we have the
introduction paragraph then we have our
paragraph one paragraph two and then
possibly paragraph three and a
conclusion so your parent your essay
must contain an introduction it must
contain at least two paragraphs and a
conclusion some essays contain three
paragraphs okay and they can but today
we're just going to look at a two
paragraph essay so here are the parts of
the essay broken down your introduction
contains three sentences okay three to
four sentences the first sentence of
your introduction is a general statement
so this is basically an introduction to
the idea or the main topic in this case
it's university attendance your second
sentence is you're going to rewrite the
prompt or rewrite the question in your
own words so here you're going to have
to pass
phrase and then your third sentence of
the introduction he's got time to say
something like this essay will explain
this essay will discuss or this essay
will argue bla bla bla bla so if either
one of these three verbs are good to use
to introduce your your opinion then your
paragraphs 1 & 2 are going to follow the
same structure they're going to start
off with a reason for your opinion then
you're going to explain your opinion
then you're going to give an example and
then you're going to close the paragraph
with a closing idea or summary sentence
then your conclusion is about 2 to 3
sentences and you can follow this model
this essay discussed and then your
reason one two and possibly three and
then finally you end your essay with
your restating your overall opinion so
it's a very neat structure you should
always plan your essay as I said once
you have your essay question prompt try
to note down some ideas a plan is like a
map right if you don't have a map then
you're going to get lost just like your
essay will if you don't plan it properly
so your planning is just a matter of
deciding what your opinion is firstly so
should students University attendants be
required or should it be optional first
thing I have to plan it is what is my
opinion then I need to think about two
reasons why do I think this the first
reason I think this and the second
reason I think this that's my plan
that's going to guide my essay so for my
plan I've decided that my overall
opinion is that University attendants
should be optional so that's what I'm
going to be arguing in my essay and my
two reasons are it's difficult for
teachers to enforce mandatory attendance
that's one reason why it should be
optional
and the second reason why university
attendants should be optional is because
it helps build responsibility in
students these are my two reasons so
this is my essay map my introduction is
going to state my opinion my first
paragraph is going to explain my first
reason and my second paragraph is going
to explain my second reason so my essay
plan now I have to write my introduction
so three sentences a general statement
based on the part then I have to rewrite
the prompt using my own words and then
this essay will explain discuss or argue
so I'm telling the reader what this
essay is going to be about so I'm going
to walk you through an introduction to
step by step breaking it down into these
three sentences the first sentence is
write a general statement based on the
prompt should university students be
required to attend class or should it be
optional here's my general statement for
most people the experience of university
is their first real experience making
decisions for themselves now you can see
this is a very general statement there's
nothing in there that refers to class
attendance okay I'm not getting into
that yet I'm just first introducing the
reader to the general topic which is
University so I start quite general
quite big and then I narrow it down in
my second sentence but before I do that
I'm going to give you one minute to
think of your own general statement to
be use the first sentence of your
introduction which is basically
introducing the reader to the general
topic feel free to write your sentence
into the chat I'll give you one minute
time starts now
okay time is up let's take a look at
some of your sentences okay some good
said first sentences there right so they
don't have to be too long I'm just
introducing the reader to the main idea
for example most of a sentence
universities are a place for students to
build responsibility fine
Arina sentence studying in university
disciplines responsibility okay fair
enough now we need to move on to
sentence number two of your introduction
which is rewrite the question prompt in
your own words so firstly question
prompt is a question so we need to turn
this into a statement and we also need
to sort of paraphrase or try to use our
own words so my paraphrase of the
question prompt is this it is thought by
some people that university students
should be required to attend their
lectures while others believe that
students should not be given the choice
to attend class or not alright there are
many different ways we can paraphrase
one way of paraphrasing is by using
passive voice so here I have said it is
thought by some we can say it is
believed by some okay and then we
introduce the idea and the idea is that
university students should be required
to attend classes now instead of classes
I'd use the word lectures okay so I'd
used a synonym there and instead of
optional I've said given the choice all
right so there's many different ways you
can paraphrase I'd like for you to try
writing your own paraphrase okay of the
question prompt you've got one minute to
do so and type it into the chat
all righty times up let's take a look
all right well done guys
good good paraphrases so like I said
there's many different ways that you can
paraphrase and it's nice to see a couple
of different examples they're so well
done on those now we're up to our final
sentence of our introduction which is
basically telling the reader what the
essay is going to argue so I've
introduced them to the idea I've
introduced them to the two opinions
about the idea and now I need to tell
them what my opinion is and I do this by
saying this essay will explain discuss
or argue what here's my example this
essay will discuss why attendance to
university classes should be optional
there's my opinion here's my two reasons
as monitoring attendance causes stress
for students and teachers and how giving
students choice causes them to become
more responsible so my opinion which I
determined in my clan is optional and my
two reasons that is difficult to monitor
attendance okay causes stress and also
it would teach students to be more
responsible so here's my opinion and
I've given my two reasons so I want you
to write your own third essay this is
this essay will will what discuss argue
explain what's your opinion and then
give me two reasons why you think that
okay times up how did you go with that
last sentence that one requires a little
bit more thought than the previous ones
so let me take a look good
all right great so nice to see some some
really good introductions there some
nice strong introductions now this third
sentence is probably the most important
sentence of the entire essay because it
actually tells it guides your essay
provides a map for yourself and a map
for the reader because the two reasons
that you give in this sentence are going
to form the foundation of YouTube
paragraphs so here's my introduction
what I put my three sentences together
my general statement my paraphrase of
the prompt and my third sentence I'm
left with this for most people the
experience at university is their first
real experience is making decisions for
themselves it is thought by some people
that university students should be
required to attend their lectures while
others believe that students should be
given the choice to attend class or not
this essay will discuss why attendance
to university classes should be optional
as monitoring attendance causes the
stress for students and teachers and how
giving students choice causes them to be
more responsible so after the end of
this class I'd like you to take the
three sentences that you wrote in the
preceding exercise and put them together
into your own introduction but for now
we're going to move on to how to write
your first paragraph alright so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to break down
the parts of the paragraph and then I'm
going to write each part we're not going
to have time for you to write your own
during the lesson but what I'd like you
to do is
sort of take notes as we go along and
I'm going to give you some planning time
for you to then at the end of the class
go off and write your own paragraph
based on what we've covered here so my
first paragraph actually discusses the
first reason that I mentioned in my
introduction which is that it's
difficult to monitor attendance policy
so this is my first reason that I need
to explain why is it difficult or how is
it difficult and then I need to give an
example so I need to illustrate that and
then I conclude my paragraph by
restating my reason again so here's my
first sentence it is not hard to see why
enforcing mandatory attendance would be
complicated for both teachers and
students okay so it's complicated or
it's difficult or it's you know not
feasible so here I'm saying my first
reason why attendance University
attendance should be optional okay
because it's complicated to monitor now
I need to explain this how is it
complicated or why is it complicated
first of all teachers would use a
valuable class time to take attendance
okay so would actually taking attendance
is going to take away from the time in
class here's an example to explain that
in typical first-year lectures there are
hundreds of students so recording
attendance would be extremely
time-consuming on the other hand
students maybe feel pressured to justify
their absences to their professor
causing unnecessary stress for both
parties okay so my first example is by
saying there are just too many students
hundreds of students in classes so it
would take too much time and it will
also cause trust to stress to students
because they're going to have to think
of reasons to justify to their professor
why they were absent moving on to my the
fourth sentence of my paragraph is
concluding my first reason a policy of
mandatory attendance would therefore
distract professors from the original
priority of teaching the material so
noticed I've used the word therefore so
in the last sentence of the paragraph
that's a really good word to tie
together the previous ideas so my
paragraph looks something like this it
is not hard to see why enforcing
mandatory attendance would be
complicated for both teachers and
students first of all teachers would use
a valuable class time to take attendance
in a typical first year lectures there
are hundreds of students so recording
attendance would be extremely
time-consuming on the other hand
students may feel pressure to justify
their absences to their professor
causing unnecessary stress for both
parties a policy of mandatory attendance
therefore distracts professors from
their original priority of teaching the
material so this is my first paragraph
and it basically explains the first
reason why I think attendance should be
optional okay your turn I'm going to
give you just maybe two minutes and to
plan your first paragraph so I don't
want you to write the whole paragraph
and for now I just want you to note down
some ideas for each sentence so just as
a reminder here are your sentences if
you believe that attendance should be
optional give me one reason give me an
explanation give me an example and then
conclude your reason now you don't have
to write full sentences for now this is
just an activity for you to generate
ideas so that you can go off and write
your own paragraph at the end of the
class I'm going to give you two minutes
anyway oops two minutes to do that
all right how did you go with that so
hopefully this sort of structure helps
you to helps to provide you with a guide
and give you some kind of guidance for
how to write your paragraph so
paragraphs and consider that you're
building a house right there needs to be
a structure a foundation and then you
need to be able to build on that so each
sentence of your paragraph is building
on the the previous one so Mustafa has
asked a question when introducing an
example in sentence three can we use
words like for example you can do that
you can say for example for instance or
to illustrate okay so these are good
ways to introduce an example and you can
feel free to use such such words
alright let's now move in to we'll move
on to paragraph two so it follows the
same structure state your second reason
for your opinion give an explanation
give an example and then give a
concluding sentence so the second reason
that I thought out so the second reason
why I thought I thought of in my
planning stage was that optional
attendance helps to build responsibility
in students so here's my first sentence
by giving students the choice to attend
class or not they will learn how to make
responsible decisions here's my
explanation University is a person's
first major experience as an adult and
as such students need to learn how to
make decisions on their own giving
students the option to attend classes
allows them to learn how to manage their
time and deal with the consequences of
their behavior here's my example for
example if they skin class to go to a
movie they may miss important
information that will require more
effort to learn
later on here's my closing sentence if
they regret this decision they will
learn from the experience and know how
to make better decisions in the future
so all of this supports my reason why
attendance should be optional it
provides a chance to learn
responsibility and here's my paragraph
by giving students a choice to attend
class or not they will learn how to make
responsible decisions University is a
person's first major experience as an
adult and as such students need to learn
how to make decisions on their own
giving students the option to attend
class allows them to learn how to manage
their time and deal with the
consequences of their decisions for
example if they skip class and go to a
movie they may miss important
information that will require more
effort to learn later on if they regret
this decision they will learn from the
experience and know how to make better
decisions in the future okay it's now
your turn so plan your second paragraph
I want you to note down some ideas for
each sentence so what's the second
reason for your opinion give me an idea
that explains it give me an example and
then an idea that concludes or
reinforces that opinion so you've got
two minutes for that
okay that's the end of our time so
hopefully you've generated some ideas to
use for your second paragraph alright so
now what we need to do is our well you
can write three body paragraphs but I
would probably try to stick to two but
if you were going to write three body
paragraphs it would be the same
structure okay but you also want to
remember that you don't want to run out
of time by trying to write too much so
if you stick to two full body paragraphs
you should be able to write on time and
within word count so let's move on to
writing a conclusion a lot of people
write great essays and then they get to
the conclusion and go I'm just going to
write one sentence and for some reason a
lot of people including myself when I
was at university found conclusions
really hard to write when actually
you're just summarizing everything that
you've already written so here's the
structure of a conclusion two to three
sentences basically you're just
repeating what you wrote this essay
discussed that University tenets should
be optional because reason one and
because reason to okay and therefore
give you overall opinion university
students should not be forced to attend
classes okay it's that kind of thing
it's pretty much just saying what you've
already said but in a nutshell so let's
take a look at my example sentence one
this essay discussed reason one and
reason to this essay discussed how
optional attendance is favorable for
professors and how it promotes
responsibility in students so that was
my first paragraph idea and this was my
second paragraph idea and my last
sentence is my overall opinion in my
opinion attendance should be optional as
professors to focus on teaching while
causing students to make responsible
decisions so a conclusion is pretty much
a summary so you want to say what you've
already said but in a different way so
you're pretty much paraphrasing yourself
so putting it together here's my
conclusion and it's just two sentences
[Music]
but try to keep trying to make those two
sentences more complex sentences rather
than this essay discussed University
attendance
I believe attendance should be optional
okay you don't you don't want to make it
too simple you want to try to sort of if
you've written a great essay you want to
end it strong so try to write sort of
more complex sentences making sure that
they are grammatically correct okay so
your turn I want you to take the ideas
that you prepared for paragraph 1 and
paragraph of 2 and then write for me
your conclusion sentence 1 this essay
discussed and then your reasons and then
give me your overall opinion you can
type it into the chat you've got one
minute
okay time is up how did you go with your
conclusions
okay so hopefully this kind of structure
makes you feel a little bit more
comfortable and relaxed about writing an
essay and approaching the different
parts of of the essay so try to sort of
keep this formula in mind let's now take
a look at my essay that I wrote with you
guys so here it is all of the parts
together the introduction paragraph one
paragraph two and my conclusion so I'll
let you read that I'll give you about a
minute or so
okay so this is just an example response
there are many different variables and
possibilities you might take an opposite
opinion to this type of question you
might say actually I believe that
university attendants should be
mandatory okay and give me two reasons
why also everybody's reasons might be
different okay so when you go off and
you practice writing an essay to this
question your reasons don't have to be
the same as mine and your opinion
doesn't have to be the same as mine
either the way to sort of score well is
to support your opinion so it doesn't
really matter what your opinion is as
long as you support it right with good
reasons and good examples now here's my
word count
so my essay with my two body paragraphs
turned out to be 314 words and as I said
at the beginning of the lesson your
TOEFL essay should be between 300 and
350 alright so you don't want to write
any less than 300 words so let's take a
look at an evaluation there are two
score well in the TOEFL essay you you
need to clearly address the topic that
means you have to answer the question
answer the question whatever the
question is related to in this case
university attendance and you also need
to give your opinion you need to use
oops a well-organized structure okay so
that's based on the structure that we
looked at in today's lesson you must use
clear examples explanations and details
to support your opinion so it's all fine
to have an opinion but you must back it
up okay
and also you are evaluated on your
language so correct sentence structure
word choice grammar and vocabulary
alright that brings us to the end of the
lesson what i'm going to do is take you
back
you the original essay question so that
you can write it down let me take you
back so that you can write it down and
then practice writing your response on
your own so here's the essay question
okay someone has just asked me about the
general statement in the introduction
which is the first sentence of your
essay the general statement kind of is
introducing the idea to the reader so
what's the idea what's the topic if we
if we look at this one second so if we
look at this paragraph or these two
sentence
what's the key word what was the main
keyword what is the topic about so the
topic is university attendance right
university attendance is a general idea
so your general statement should be
introducing the reader to the topic of
university attend attendance then the
next sentence of the introduction
introduces the the two ideas and the two
ideas are one group of people think
attendance should be mandatory and the
other group of people think that
attended should be optional okay so
you're going from big idea which is
attendance to more narrow idea which is
the opinions related to attendance
optional required and then even more
narrow where you're actually introducing
your opinion so this essay will discuss
why I believe University attendance
should be optional or mandatory okay
hope that makes sense now that's a
little bit more clear okay in terms of
getting feedback if you guys after this
session want to go off and write your
your essay about this topic the to get
feedback I suggest you book in a writing
tutorial with one of our TOEFL writing
teachers and you can submit your essay
to them you can email it to them before
your session and then during the session
they can give you feedback another way
is through the platform once you log in
to your account you can actually access
different
assessments different writing
assessments as well so different essay
questions
I really suggest you go through as many
essay questions as you can on our
website we have lots of samples and lots
of activities as well as assessments
that you can submit for feedback okay
any questions at all related to the
essay before we finalize the class I'll
just take you now back to this all right
so you might want to keep this in mind
when you're writing your essay this
structure
so as I said guys the planning stage of
the essay is important
the first thing with an opinion essay
that you have to ask yourself is what do
I think so that you can write your essay
so what do I think do I agree or do I
disagree which which opinion do I take
and then once you decide on your opinion
you need to think of two reasons why so
really when planning it shouldn't take
you more to more than three minutes to
think about what's my opinion and what
are my two reasons yeah you don't want
to spend more than sort of three minutes
on that and you also want to try to keep
three minutes at the end of your essay
before you click Submit to proofread it
a lot of the time when we're typing and
we're typing really quickly especially
when we're used to typing on I don't
know Facebook or social media and we use
lots of shortcuts like you know see you
whatever
lots of shortcuts so I do see a lot of
people who write essays to me using
those shortcuts and I have to write back
to them saying this is not Facebook so
what you want to do because it's so easy
and we fall into the habit of doing this
to go back spend three minutes at the
end to read your essay and see have you
used any shortcuts make sure that you
use full words and not abbreviations
make sure that you have spelt things
correctly make sure that you use use
correct punctuation a lot of the time we
all make mistakes
especially when we're typing and we're
typing quickly so proofreading can save
you marks if you pick up on mistakes
before the examiners do